- [Instructor] Building a Spring Boot application
is a relatively simple process,
but running it is a little bit different, in many cases,
than a traditional Java web application,
specifically around how you package
and deliver that application.
Building Spring Boot applications,
again, are relatively simple
because you're using the build systems in place
from the dependency management systems.
With Maven, you simply execute
a Maven clean package command.
With Gradle, you can use simple build commands
defined in the Gradle file itself.
Spring Boot, regardless of using Gradle or Maven,
comes packaged with scripts that call into the build
independency management system for you.
Spring has some great documentation on using these
on all of their examples on their website.
Except for Docker, all these build systems
build an executable JAR,
assuming that that's your packaging type,
or an executable WAR if that is your package type.
Both of them also build traditional JAR and WAR files
at the same time
and you'll see those with the word original in them.
Spring Boot applications are best suited as JAR files.
Josh Long coined the phrase, "Make JAR not WAR,"
when Spring Boot first came out
to help shift this mindset.
So JARs should be the packaging for Spring Boot,
at least as the preferred method.
You can build WAR files if you prefer.
However, in very few use cases
is that actually required anymore today.
The Spring Boot JAR file itself is self-executable.
Now, what this means is that you can use
simple java-jar command to run the application
without any other needs from the systems,
other than having a JVM on your machine.
The JAR file itself can be deployed
to some containerized frameworks to run in an unpacked form.
Usually wiring the JAR loader
is part of the runtime of those containerized frameworks.
Another cool aspect of a Spring Boot JAR file
is that they have some prepended text
that allows them to run on servers
via init.d or systemd registrations.
So you can set up a simple cloud server,
say an EC2 instance,
and install this into systemd
and it will start up when the server itself starts up,
again, giving you more flexibility
of how to run these executable JAR files.